---
layout: post
title: "Websites"
date: 2016-04-04 16:39:18
comments: true
description: "How Websites work"
keywords: "websites, HTML, HTTP, Static, Dynamic"
categories:
- Ruby Classes
tags:
- welcome
- done

---




James Melonides
April 25, 2016
Websites

	Almost everyone in the world views websites daily, but very few know how a website actually works. A website is a collection of files and data, each with different code that works together to create a website. Your browser is able to interpret these files and display them on your computer. These files include HTML (.html, .htm), CSS (.css) and JavaScript (.js). You can also use ruby behind the scenes for the actually code. For example, you can say using ruby when a certain button is clicked, the website will redirect you to a different page. These are the files that are responsible for making a website look pretty on the outside, but there are plenty of other things going on under the surface of websites. These websites are accessed from the DNS which is used to give a website a place to live, and an address for people to find it with. Once your browser locates the website, it downloads the files necessary and displays the website. Your computer is called the client and the website is called the server. When the client wants to get access to a webpage, it sends a request to the server using HTTP. TCP than checks to see if all of the files are there before showing you the homepage. There are two different types of websites; static and dynamic. Static websites are built out of separate HTML files for each page. To change each page, you have to change each file individually. Dynamic websites use server technologies to change and build a webpage right when a user visits the page. When someone goes to a website the server puts together a webpage using different pieces of information. Examples of static websites include Wikipedia. Dynamic websites include ESPN and almost all news sites. Websites are accessible 24/7 unless there is a physical problem or a problem with the connection on your end Websites are used daily, yet very few people know how much work goes into maintaining it.


https://nycda.com/blog/how-the-internet-works/

https://rocketmedia.com/blog/static-vs-dynamic-websites

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/How_the_Web_works

